Hi. I am Matt Ripley.
I am the vice principal
at Marshview Middle School.
And today I'm going to talk a little bit
about how we use circles
with our students.
So I guess a couple of different ways
we can use circles.
One of them would be a restorative circle.
So our restorative circle
would be in response
to a conflict between two students
or a group of students.
Basically, when feelings have been hurt
or emotions are running
high and we want to heal
and we want to rebuild a relationship.
So those types of circles
are usually a lot smaller.
They'll be with the students involved
and perhaps a few adults.
Maybe the guidance counselor,
but they stay pretty small
and they stay quite focused.
And the purpose of that is to heal or,
you know, give students a chance
to express their point of view
and their side of things
so that we can rebuild the relationship
and move on.
Before we do that, there's some groundwork
that needs to happen.
First, we want to make sure
that we've interviewed
both students or all students involved,
and we've gotten their side of the story.
And to make sure that they're in a space
where they're ready to do this.
One thing we don't
want to do is for students to apologize.
So to do this, you know,
if if an apology comes,
it should be authentic.
And this type of format allows students
to really express their point of view.
Why they're hurt,
why they're feeling that way,
or to defend their actions so
they can explain why they did something.
And usually with that,
the apology comes authentically
and organically,
and it means so much more of that way.
Another way we use
circles are a whole class,
so we'll sit with either a whole class
or we'll do half of the class
at the time while the other class
is working on another social
emotional piece of learning.
But in those circles will specifically
teach skills, such as conflict
resolution, emotional recognition,
emotional regulation, or building empathy.
So with those,
there's always an attack in intent.
So we'll start by, you know,
doing a little bit of mindfulness
breath work, and then we'll share
the intent of the circle that day.
Sometimes I'll come with an intent
or sometimes
I'll talk to the teacher beforehand
and we'll see.
Is there anything that's happening
in your classroom
that we really should touch upon?
So you have to be flexible sometimes.
The intent of the circle can change
depending on on
what's happening in the school that week
or that day.
With that, students can always pass,
and we don't force them to participate,
but we really do encourage them.
So the way we do
that is basically at the first question,
the first time around the circle,
we start with something easy to, to,
to get by.
And maybe it's something as simple as
tell me
your name and your favorite animal.
And then it gets a little bit more tricky
or a little bit deeper or more emotional
as we go in.
And if students are kind
of following the process,
they'll start to see that
this is a safe place to share.
I can talk about how I feel here,
and people aren't going to laugh at me,
or they're not going to turn around
and and tease me after this is over.
So once they get that by
and you really do see students, you know,
after a week or two, you know, they
they buy into the process and they become
a lot more comfortable with opening up
and telling us how they feel.
I think, well, starting with easy
questions is a really important one
to get that by.
And some students aren't comfortable with
the process right away, so they need it.
They need that time to to understand
that it is a safe space.
And you have to build that.
You have to, you know, explicitly
say this is a safe space.
And what we talk about here
is really important.
So that that's why
we do a little bit of mindful meditation
before it really kind of resets
the nervous system.
And then we can set the tone
that this is a place where
we're going to speak from our heart,
and we're going to listen from our heart,
and we're going to understand
that everybody comes
with their own unique perspective,
and we can learn from everybody here.
And when you set that tone,
the students will fall in line
and they'll really believe that.
And and once once they do, it's amazing
what they share.
You know, I'm always impressed with
with how they demonstrate their learning
and and how they grow emotionally.
I guess another thing would be to make
sure you're being flexible and responsive.
You know, we always set our intention
at the beginning of the circle,
but it may go in a different direction.
Some students may share
things that may be off topic,
but you have to realize right away,
maybe what they're sharing
is so important that we may have to adjust
what we're talking about, right?
So even if you have an intent,
make sure you're being responsive
to the students in the conversations
that are happening in front of you.